Brian Henson

I found many, many bugs in the base Dominion code, before I even added my own bugs. All of these bugs are still 
present in Ilya's version of the code. Below, I will describe two of them. 

Firstly, there is a very severe bug in the Adventurer code. Simply put, if there are 1 or 0 treasure cards 
remaining in a player's combined deck/discard, the loop will run potentially infinitely, iterating to create an 
increasingly negative hand size until it finds what looks like a treasure card, even though that card is somewhere way 
beyond the bounds of the hand array.
I found this bug via inspection, before even running any tests. It occurred to me that there was no "break" 
statement, and therefore the only way it would leave the loop was if it found two treasures (erroneously) or 
it would run forever. 
This bug is the result of not catching the return value of the drawCard function at line 678. This function 
will return -1 if the deck is still empty after combining the whole discard pile into it, which is exactly the 
condition that we care about. However, it is not stored or used. 
The likelyhood of this bug being encountered by users is 2/5; the scenario is simple to set up, but 
the Adventurer card is already unpopular, and there is usually a high ratio of treasure cards in a person's 
entire deck, so it would be rare that this card is played while there are not enough treasures to find. However, 
based on the 5/5 severity of the bug when it does occur (putting the game in an invalid state for the player 
who used this card, as well as accessing and modifying data outside the array bounds), I would rate this 
bug a 4/5 priority to fix. 


Secondly, there is a very severe bug in the discardCard function in combination with the endTurn function. The 
result of this bug is that whenever an action card is played, it is lost forever (but not actually trashed). 

I found this bug via inspection, before even running any tests. When designing unit tests for the function, 
I wanted to know how it behaved, so I was reading the code. However, to my surprise the cards discarded with 
this function are NOT put into the actual "discard" array! Instead, they are put into a playedCards array. 

This itself is not the bug. "PlayedCards" is a temporary zone for any action cards that are played in a turn, 
to hold them so they don’t get shuffled in if the deck is empty. I believe this is proper game behavior, because 
this would prevent a player with a small enough deck from infinitely looping a pair of Market cards for 
infinite money and buys. This playedCards pile is supposed to be moved to the normal discard pile at the end 
of turn. 
The real cause of the bug is that the playedCards pile is never actually moved to discard. This should happen 
once per turn, at the end of the turn, but does not. The endTurn function is at line 354. 
This bug has a severity of 4/5, because it changes the game in a slow and constant fashion, requiring a much 
different playstyle. It has a priority of 5/5 because, in addition to the severity, it is unavoidable in any 
game of Dominion. 



